# Overview

| Developed by | Guardrails AI |
| Date of development | Feb 15, 2024 |
| Validator type | Format |
| Blog |  |
| License | Apache 2 |
| Input/Output | Output |

## Description

Scans LLM outputs for strings that could cause browser script execution downstream. Uses the `bleach` library to detect and escape suspect characters.

### Intended Use

Use this validator when you are passing the results of your LLM requests directly to a browser or other html-executable environment. It's a good idea to also implement other XSS and code injection prevention techniques.

### Requirements

* Dependencies:
    - `bleach`
    - guardrails-ai>=0.4.0

## Installation

```bash
$ guardrails hub install hub://guardrails/web_sanitization
```

## Usage Examples

### Validating string output via Python

In this example, we apply the validator to a string output generated by an LLM.

```python
# Import Guard and Validator
from guardrails import Guard
from guardrails.hub import WebSanitization

# Use the Guard with the validator
guard = Guard().use(WebSanitization, on_fail="exception")

# Test passing response
guard.validate(
    """MetaAI's Llama2 is the latest in their open-source LLM series. 
    It is a powerful language model."""
)

try:
    # Test failing response
    guard.validate(
        """MetaAI's Llama2 is the latest in their open-source LLM series. 
        It is a powerful language model. <script>alert('XSS')</script>"""
    )
except Exception as e:
    print(e)
```
Output:
```console
Validation failed for field with errors: The output contains a web injection attack.
```

# API Reference

**`__init__(self, on_fail="noop")`**
<ul>

Initializes a new instance of the WebSanitization validator class.

**Parameters:**

- 
- **`on_fail`** *(str, Callable):* The policy to enact when a validator fails. If `str`, must be one of `reask`, `fix`, `filter`, `refrain`, `noop`, `exception` or `fix_reask`. Otherwise, must be a function that is called when the validator fails.

</ul>

<br/>

**`validate(self, value, metadata={}) -> ValidationResult`**

<ul>

Validates the given `value` using the rules defined in this validator. This method is automatically invoked by `guard.parse(...)`, ensuring the validation logic is applied to the input data.

Note:

1. This method should not be called directly by the user. Instead, invoke `guard.parse(...)` where this method will be called internally for each associated Validator.
2. When invoking `guard.parse(...)`, ensure to pass the appropriate `metadata` dictionary that includes keys and values required by this validator. If `guard` is associated with multiple validators, combine all necessary metadata into a single dictionary.


**Parameters:**

- **`value`** *(Any):* The input value to validate.
- **`metadata`** *(dict):* A dictionary containing metadata required for validation. Keys and values must match the expectations of this validator.
    
Metadata is not used in this validator
    
</ul>
